Alright, this is where it gets real.
Everything up to now has been context and
background.
This module is about what actually comes out
of your mouth when you pick up the phone
and dial.
In this lesson, we're covering step one of
the five-step framework, how to open the
call.
It's short, but it sets the tone for the
entire conversation, so pay attention here.
The intro
is quick, simple, and to the point.
Let me demonstrate. You've got about 15
seconds to set
the tone for the entire conversation.
15 seconds. That's it.
Here's what a solid opening sounds like.
Hi Jim, this is Andrea with the BMH Group.
How are you doing today?
Great. Sounds like you've
got a pre-qualification for an offer and I'd
like to finalize some details.
When we purchase
properties, we buy them as is, we cover all
closing costs, and there are no commissions
involved.
So by the end of this call, I'll be able to
do one of two things for you.
I can either give you
an approval with an offer or a denial with a
reason.
Did I catch you at a good time?
That's it.
That's the whole thing, but every piece of
that is doing something specific.
So let me break it down.
When you say pre-qualified, that frames the
call as
a qualification, not a sales pitch.
The seller doesn't feel like they're being
sold to.
They
feel like they're being evaluated.
It completely flips the dynamic.
Suddenly they're wondering if
they qualify instead of wondering how to get
you off the phone.
When you say approval with an offer
or denial with a reason, that creates
intrigue.
Now they're thinking, wait, am I going to
qualify
instead of, oh great, another person trying
to buy my house?
It shifts their whole mental frame.
And when you ask, did I catch you at a good
time?
You're handling the first objection,
which is always time right up front.
If they say no, you schedule a callback, no
big deal.
If they say yes, you've just gotten
permission to continue.
That's huge. Now, right after the intro,
I want you to say this.
Perfect. What I want you to do is grab a pen
and paper because there's
going to be some information you'll want to
jot down as we go through this.
Then give them your
name, spell your last name out for them, give
them the company name, and at the end of
the call,
give them your phone number and ask them to
repeat it back to you.
Why does this matter so much?
Think about it. You're taking control of the
conversation.
Whatever
this person was doing before you called,
watching TV, making lunch, scrolling through
their phone,
you've now redirected their entire attention
to you.
They're getting up, finding a pen, sitting
down, writing things down.
That's engagement. It's also a compliance
test, and I mean that in
the best way. If they'll do what you ask,
grab a pen, write things down, repeat your
number back,
you know they're actually engaged.
They're present. If they can't repeat your
phone number back to you,
they weren't really writing it down and you
don't have real engagement yet.
Good to know.
And you're also building trust early.
You're giving them your real information,
your real name,
your real number. You're saying, here's who
I am, here's how to reach me.
That's different from the
other callers who just wanted a quick number
and then hung up.
You're a real person and you're
proving it. One quick thing to ask early on,
are you speaking on a landline or a cell
phone? Simple
question, but it determines your entire
follow-up strategy.
Cell phone means you can text them.
Landline means you've got to call them at
home.
That one little detail changes how you stay
in
touch going forward. One last mindset before
you go deeper.
When you move into the conversation
itself, assume they're motivated until
proven otherwise.
Don't start the call trying to figure
out if this person is worth your time.
Flip it. Assume this is a deal and your job
is to find out
what's driving them. And here's the ratio
that matters.
You should be listening 80% of the time,
talking 20. It's a conversation, not an
interrogation.
That's your opening.
15 seconds to flip the dynamic, take control,
and build trust before you ever talk about
the house.
Next up is step two, the fact find, where
that 80% of listening actually
happens. I'll see you there.